Docker Threat Modeling
Given Docker's system components and the STRIDE framework, identify five potential threats that may arise.

1. Spoofing - Docker connects virtual interfaces created in bridge mode to a common bridge called docker0. 
This default networking model is vulnerable to ARP spoofing and MAC flooding attacks as there is no filtering 
applied to it.

2. Tampering - The Docker server certificate file should be protected from any tampering. It is used to authenticate the 
Docker server based on the given server certificate. It must therefore be individually owned and group owned 
by root to prevent modification by less privileged users.

3. Information Disclosure - By default, unrestricted network traffic is enabled between all containers on 
the same host on the default network bridge. Thus, each container has the potential of reading all packets 
across the container network on the same host. This might lead to an unintended and unwanted disclosure of 
information to other containers. Hence, restrict inter-container communication on the default network bridge.

4. Denial of Service - By default a container can use all of the memory on the host. You can use memory 
limit mechanisms to prevent a denial of service occurring where one container consumes all of the host’s 
resources and other containers on the same host are therefore not able to function. Having no limit on memory 
usage can lead to issues where one container can easily make the whole system unstable and as a result unusable.

5. Elevation of Privilege - Due to traffic network spoofing, an attacker can gain access to the host and other containers. 
Unnecessary packages should not be installed in the container.

Kubernetes Threat Modeling
Given Kubernetes' system components and the STRIDE framework, identify five potential threats that may arise.

1. Spoofing — Kubernetes ships with insecure defaults, for example, all pods have `CAP_NET_RAW` permissions. 
This allows all pods to open raw sockets and inject malicious packets into the Kubernetes container network, 
which may lead to spoofing.

2. Repudiation — Kubernetes natively doesn't allow certificate revocation, which may lead to repudiation 
if a certificate cannot be revoked when necessary.

3. Denial of Service — Kubernetes ships without an upper limit for setting the memory footprint. 
This may lead to a denial of service which could result in exhausting resources needed to run the pod.

4. Information Disclosure — Major approaches focuses on being able to read secret data from the cluster directly 
by exploiting misconfigured RBAC permissions. Other approaches include viewing sensitive data stored within 
logs and eavesdropping on network traffic.

5. Elevation of Privilege — Several Kubernetes distributions have made the decision that they don’t consider 
malicious containers part of their threat model. As such, once an attacker has that level of access then 
there are minimal controls, by default, stopping them from getting full cluster-admin rights. Ensure that 
all management ports visible oin the cluster network require authentication for all users.

Docker-bench Run Results and Analysis
From the failed findings, select and document 3 findings from the Docker-bench results that you want to harden 
based on the 5 attack surface areas you identified in Step 1. At least 1 of the 3 hardened findings should be 
different from the ones mentioned in the exercise (i.e. 5.10, 5.14, and 5.22).

Answers:

2.1 Ensure network traffic is restricted between containers on the default bridge
Description - By default, all network traffic is allowed between containers on the same host on the default network bridge. 
If not desired, restrict all inter-container communication. Link specific containers together that require communication. 
Alternatively, you can create custom network and only join containers that need to communicate to that custom network.

Remediation:

Edit the Docker daemon configuration file to ensure that icc is disabled. It should include the following setting

"icc": false

3.16 Ensure that the Docker socket file permissions are set to 660 or more restrictively

Remediation:

run

chmod 660 /var/run/docker.sock

4.5 Ensure Content trust for Docker is Enabled (Scored)

Description - Content trust is disabled by default and should be enabled in line with organizational security policy.

Remediation:

run

export DOCKER_CONTENT_TRUST=1